README.md, before:

# HTML-CSS--JordanMIller-Fall-2025
week1 : 
Learning Outcomes
Review basic HTML:
Semantic tags and page structure
Hyperlinks, images, and relative paths
Validation
Review basic CSS
Font families, text properties, colors, etc.
Box model properties
Layout and grids
Responsive design and media queries
Create forms for various types of input
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Read the course outline thoroughly and let me know ASAP if you have any questions or concerns.
Work on the first assignment, which review's last semester's materials and introduces HTML forms.
Review this week's discussion questions.
-----
week two : 
Postion sticky: it always stick as you scroll- 
Learning Outcomes
Use advanced selectors to simplify markup
Use nested selectors for organization and simplicity
Use CSS variables for improved organization
Use position property for advanced layout and UI features
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

If you're interested in joining the course Slack channel, answer the username survey;
Watch the video lessons [Note: one more lesson on hsl colors will be coming later in the week]
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.

week3 ;
Learning Outcomes
Build CSS grids using templates for columns, rows, and areas;
Use justification and alignment;
Size tracks in various ways, including automatic sizing;
Use the subgrid feature for nested grids;
Place grid elements and overlap grid elements;
Create responsive layouts using the Intrinsic Design approach.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

I recommend that you at least skim through the two videos Introduction to CSS Grid Parts 1 and 2, as they cover basic concepts that you will be expected to be familiar with. If these ideas are new to you, you should watch the videos carefully and follow along with the demos.
The slides Introduction to Grid cover much of the same ground as the above videos, but may be helpful as a reference.
Watch the videos (and complete the demos therein) Intrinsic Design with CSS Grid and Grid Template Areas. Please watch these videos before our lab this week, as you'll be required to know these topics to follow along. 
Complete the tutorial Advanced CSS Grid Techniques;
The optional video by Jen Simmons may seem a bit out of date (as it's from 2018), but it's interesting and gives some insight into the inception of the Intrinsic Design idea and the historical development of some other familiar web design ideas.
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.

---------------------------
Week 4 - Flexbox
Learning Outcomes
Use CSS grid to build one-dimension layouts
Use direction and order properties to control the flow of a flex layout
Use justification and alignment to control the position of elements in a flex layout
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Optionally review the article CSS Tricks Flexbox Layout Guide
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.
List of Topics and Sub-Modules for Week 4 - Flexbox


https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/#aa-prefixing-flexbox

------------------------
week 5:
Learning Outcomes
Use APIs to access models for coding and software design;
Use coding assistants to build user interfaces with HTML and CSS.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

The following tasks must be completed before our lab next week. Some may take several days, so please start ASAP. This week's assignment will be done in the lab and must be handed in by the end of the session, so you won't have another chance to participate if you're not ready on Friday.
First, read the AI Privacy, Safety, and Ethics policy. If you have any concerns about the policy, let me know and we can discuss alternatives.
Complete the tutorial GitHub Education and Codespaces. The part at the end about pushing code to a repository is optional, so you can stop when you get there. If you have any difficulty being approved for an Education account, please let me know ASAP.
Complete the tutorial Setting up OpenRouter.
Complete the tutorial Setting up Cline.
----------------------

Week 6 - Container Queries and Custom HTML Elements 
Learning Outcomes
Use size and orientation-based container queries for responsive design
Use container-relative units for sizing
Create and use custom HTML elements with attributes and slotted elements
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Complete this week's readings;
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.

Listen
Required:

Josh Comeau wrote a great explainer about what container queries are and why it took so long to get them in the CSS spec: https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/container-queries-introduction/
Recommended:

As usual, MDN has succinct and helpful tutorials about both container queries and custom HTML elements:
Container queries: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment/Container_queries
Custom Elements:
Basics: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements
Shadow DOM: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_shadow_DOM
Templates and Slots: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_templates_and_slots
Listen
---------------------------
Week 8: CSS Frameworks 
Learning Outcomes
Implement a design using Tailwind CSS and utility classes;
Use Tailwind CSS directives to create a theme;
Build user interfaces with components from DaisyUI.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Complete this week's assignment 7 (which doubles as a tutorial)
Review this week's discussion questions.

Commit message:

Update README with Week 2 and Week 3 details
Added Week 2 and Week 3 learning outcomes and to-dos.

README.md, after:

# HTML-CSS--JordanMIller-Fall-2025
week1 : 
Learning Outcomes
Review basic HTML:
Semantic tags and page structure
Hyperlinks, images, and relative paths
Validation
Review basic CSS
Font families, text properties, colors, etc.
Box model properties
Layout and grids
Responsive design and media queries
Create forms for various types of input
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Read the course outline thoroughly and let me know ASAP if you have any questions or concerns.
Work on the first assignment, which review's last semester's materials and introduces HTML forms.
Review this week's discussion questions.
-----
week two : 
Postion sticky: it always stick as you scroll- 
Learning Outcomes
Use advanced selectors to simplify markup
Use nested selectors for organization and simplicity
Use CSS variables for improved organization
Use position property for advanced layout and UI features
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

If you're interested in joining the course Slack channel, answer the username survey;
Watch the video lessons [Note: one more lesson on hsl colors will be coming later in the week]
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.
=================
week2 : 
Week 2 - Advanced CSS Selectors, Nested CSS, Variables, and Position Property 
Learning Outcomes
Use advanced selectors to simplify markup
Use nested selectors for organization and simplicity
Use CSS variables for improved organization
Use position property for advanced layout and UI features
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

If you're interested in joining the course Slack channel, answer the username survey;
Watch the video lessons [Note: one more lesson on hsl colors will be coming later in the week]
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.+++++
=====================

week3 ;
Learning Outcomes
Build CSS grids using templates for columns, rows, and areas;
Use justification and alignment;
Size tracks in various ways, including automatic sizing;
Use the subgrid feature for nested grids;
Place grid elements and overlap grid elements;
Create responsive layouts using the Intrinsic Design approach.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

I recommend that you at least skim through the two videos Introduction to CSS Grid Parts 1 and 2, as they cover basic concepts that you will be expected to be familiar with. If these ideas are new to you, you should watch the videos carefully and follow along with the demos.
The slides Introduction to Grid cover much of the same ground as the above videos, but may be helpful as a reference.
Watch the videos (and complete the demos therein) Intrinsic Design with CSS Grid and Grid Template Areas. Please watch these videos before our lab this week, as you'll be required to know these topics to follow along. 
Complete the tutorial Advanced CSS Grid Techniques;
The optional video by Jen Simmons may seem a bit out of date (as it's from 2018), but it's interesting and gives some insight into the inception of the Intrinsic Design idea and the historical development of some other familiar web design ideas.
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.

---------------------------
Week 4 - Flexbox
Learning Outcomes
Use CSS grid to build one-dimension layouts
Use direction and order properties to control the flow of a flex layout
Use justification and alignment to control the position of elements in a flex layout
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Optionally review the article CSS Tricks Flexbox Layout Guide
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.
List of Topics and Sub-Modules for Week 4 - Flexbox


https://css-tricks.com/snippets/css/a-guide-to-flexbox/#aa-prefixing-flexbox

------------------------
week 5:
Learning Outcomes
Use APIs to access models for coding and software design;
Use coding assistants to build user interfaces with HTML and CSS.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

The following tasks must be completed before our lab next week. Some may take several days, so please start ASAP. This week's assignment will be done in the lab and must be handed in by the end of the session, so you won't have another chance to participate if you're not ready on Friday.
First, read the AI Privacy, Safety, and Ethics policy. If you have any concerns about the policy, let me know and we can discuss alternatives.
Complete the tutorial GitHub Education and Codespaces. The part at the end about pushing code to a repository is optional, so you can stop when you get there. If you have any difficulty being approved for an Education account, please let me know ASAP.
Complete the tutorial Setting up OpenRouter.
Complete the tutorial Setting up Cline.
----------------------

Week 6 - Container Queries and Custom HTML Elements 
Learning Outcomes
Use size and orientation-based container queries for responsive design
Use container-relative units for sizing
Create and use custom HTML elements with attributes and slotted elements
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Complete this week's readings;
Complete this week's assignment;
Review this week's discussion questions.

Listen
Required:

Josh Comeau wrote a great explainer about what container queries are and why it took so long to get them in the CSS spec: https://www.joshwcomeau.com/css/container-queries-introduction/
Recommended:

As usual, MDN has succinct and helpful tutorials about both container queries and custom HTML elements:
Container queries: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/CSS_containment/Container_queries
Custom Elements:
Basics: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_custom_elements
Shadow DOM: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_shadow_DOM
Templates and Slots: https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Web_components/Using_templates_and_slots
Listen
---------------------------
Week 8: CSS Frameworks 
Learning Outcomes
Implement a design using Tailwind CSS and utility classes;
Use Tailwind CSS directives to create a theme;
Build user interfaces with components from DaisyUI.
To-dos For This Week
Complete the following tasks in order from top to bottom:

Complete this week's assignment 7 (which doubles as a tutorial)
Review this week's discussion questions.
